---
Title: "More About Terraform language"
Date: 2023-02-07
---

<h1>More About Terraform Language</h1>

Last week I have just started learning what is terraform and a sample code to create an ec2 instance. This week I have started learning structure and syntax of terraform language
by going through its official <a href="https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/docs">documentation<a>.
  
  In terraform, we declare resources block in the code, which is infrastructure objects. Each resource block consists of once or more infrastructure objects(both high and low level components) like ec2, VPC, DNS, etc.
  
  <h3>Syntax for Resource block</h3>
  
  ```
  resource "resource_type" "resource_name" {
  attribute = value
  block_type {
    attribute = value
  }
}
```
  
  Here, 
  - resourse_type tells you the type of resource that is being defined.
  - resource_name is like a local variable which can be used further in the code. This does not create any objects with resource_name in aws.
  - attribute and value are the configuration arguments for the resource.
  - this can further nested by building relation with other infra objects by block_type
  
  Example:
  I tried creating a VPC, subnet and assign that subnet property to a ec2 instance
  ```
  provider "aws" {
  region = "us-west-2"
}

resource "aws_vpc" "my_vpc" {
  cidr_block = "10.0.0.0/16"

  tags = {
    Name = "vpc-test"
  }
}
  ```
  This creates a VPC in us-west region. This VPC is stored in local variable my_VPC. we can access this variable with the same name
  
  ```
  resource "aws_subnet" "my_subnet" {
  vpc_id     = aws_vpc.my_vpc.id
  cidr_block = "10.0.1.0/24"

  tags = {
    Name = "subnet-test"
  }
}

  ```
  Here I created a subnet and assigned the VPC which i Created early on.
  
  ```
  resource "aws_instance" "example" {
  ami           = "ami-0323c3dd2da7fb37d"
  instance_type = "t2.micro"

  subnet_id = aws_subnet.my_subnet.id

  tags = {
    Name = "test-instance"
  }
}
  ```
  This created an ec-2 instance with the subnet i created before.
  
  <h3>Timeouts</h3>
  i have also learnt how to set timeouts in the nested block which is a good practice or good to have feature.
  
  ```
  timeouts{
      create = "60m"
      delete = "2h"
  }
  ```
  
  <h3>Issues faced</h3>
  while configuring the AWS-CLI in my terminal, i gave region as virginia. but when i was trying to create aninstence in us-west, it was throwing an error- Provider Configuration Error.
  This error got fixed when i changed the configuration in aws-cli.
  
  
